add serialize style with chakra ui (#5)
navarroaxel/navarroaxel.github.io: blog/serialize-a-style-using-your-chakra-ui-theme.md

# Serialize a style using your Chakra UI theme

> A time ago I had to build a subscription form using the [Spreedly iFrame API](https://docs.spreedly.com/reference/iframe/v1/) to allow the user to use their credit card in a safe way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A time ago I had to build a _subscription form_ using the [Spreedly iFrame API](https://docs.spreedly.com/reference/iframe/v1/) to allow a user to use its credit card in a safe way.
```

> And I found myself in an issue with the input for the card number and the CVV number because Spreedly inserts an `iframe` and the inputs are not under my control (and my CSS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a while, I found myself into an issue with the card number and the CVV number inputs because Spreedly inserts an `iframe` and the inputs are not under my control (and my CSS).
```

> After a while, I found myself into an issue with the card number and the CVV number inputs because Spreedly inserts an `iframe` and the inputs are not under my control (and my CSS).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a while, I found myself into an issue with the card number and the CVV number inputs because Spreedly inserts an `iframe`; therefore the inputs are not under my control (and my CSS).
```

## The easy solution

> Afortunately Spreedly accepts a style inline string via the [`setStyle`](https://docs.spreedly.com/reference/iframe/v1/#setstyle) function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afortunately Spreedly accepts inline style strings via the [`*setStyle*`](https://docs.spreedly.com/reference/iframe/v1/#setstyle) function.
```

> Afortunately Spreedly accepts a style inline string via the [`setStyle`](https://docs.spreedly.com/reference/iframe/v1/#setstyle) function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fortunately, Spreedly accepts a style inline string via the [`setStyle`](https://docs.spreedly.com/reference/iframe/v1/#setstyle) function.
```

```javascript
Spreedly.on("ready", () => {
  Spreedly.setStyle("number", "width:225px;  height:35px;");
});
```

> A little ugly but a solution at least. Lets see how to improve this...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a little bit ugly but it's a solution after all. Let's see how to improve this...
```

## Using the theme with strings

> We can use the [`useTheme` hook](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/hooks/use-theme) to get all the tokens we had defined in the theme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use the [`useTheme` hook](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/hooks/use-theme) to get all the tokens we defined in the theme.
```

```javascript
import {useEffect} from 'react'
import {useTheme} from "@chakra-ui/react"

const buildStyles = theme => `
  border: 2px solid ${theme.colors.gray[300]},
  color: ${theme.colors.black},
  lineHeight: ${theme.sizes[5]}
`

const MyComp = () => {
  const theme = useTheme();
  useEffect(() => {
    Spreedly.on("ready", () => {
      Spreedly.setStyle("number", buildStyles(theme));
    });
  }, []);

  return <>...</>;
};
```

> This is similar to `styled-components` using the string templates for create styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is similar to `styled-components` using the string templates to create styles.
```

> This is similar to `styled-components` using the string templates to create styles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is similar to `styled-components` because of the string templates usage to create styles.
```

> 💡 Tip: remember that your component should be wrapper by a `ChakraProvider` to get the `theme` object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
💡 Tip: remember that your component should be wrapped by a `ChakraProvider` to get the `theme` object.
```

> 💡 Tip: remember that your component should be wrapper by a `ChakraProvider` to get the `theme` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
💡 Tip: remember that your component should be wrapped by a `ChakraProvider` to get the `theme` object.
```

## Using a CSS object

> I looked for a nicer way to handle a CSS object in JavaScript instead of a one big string. Chakra UI uses [emotion](https://emotion.sh/) under the hook to build the CSS classes, so I found this solution:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I looked for a nicer way to handle a CSS object in JavaScript instead of using one big string. Chakra UI uses [emotion](https://emotion.sh/) under the hook to build the CSS classes, so I found this solution:
```

```javascript
import {css} from "@chakra-ui/react"
import {serializeStyles} from '@emotion/serialize'

const toCSSString = (styles, theme) => serializeStyles([css(styles)(theme)]).styles;
```

> the [`serializeStyles` function](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion/blob/main/packages/serialize/) from `emotion` convert an object into another one built with a `name` attribute for a auto-generated CSS class name; and the `styles` attribute with all the style properties in one string. 😁

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [`*serializeStyles*` function](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion/blob/main/packages/serialize/) from `emotion` convert an object into another one built with a `name` attribute for a auto-generated CSS class name; and the `styles` attribute with all the style properties in one string. 😁
```

> the [`serializeStyles` function](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion/blob/main/packages/serialize/) from `emotion` convert an object into another one built with a `name` attribute for a auto-generated CSS class name; and the `styles` attribute with all the style properties in one string. 😁

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [`serializeStyles` function](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion/blob/main/packages/serialize/) from `emotion` convert an object into another one built with a `name` attribute for an auto-generated CSS class name; and the `styles` attribute with all the style properties in one string. 😁
```

> the [`serializeStyles` function](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion/blob/main/packages/serialize/) from `emotion` convert an object into another one built with a `name` attribute for a auto-generated CSS class name; and the `styles` attribute with all the style properties in one string. 😁

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`serializeStyles` function](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion/blob/main/packages/serialize/) from `emotion` convert an object into another one with a `name` attribute for an auto-generated CSS class name; and the `styles` attribute with all the styling properties in one string. 😁
```

> the [`css` function](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/blob/main/packages/styled-system/src/css.ts) from Chakra UI normalize the shortcuts that [Chakra provides](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/features/style-props) like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the [`css` function](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/blob/main/packages/styled-system/src/css.ts) from Chakra UI normalizes the shortcuts that [Chakra provides](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/features/style-props) like:
```

> the [`css` function](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/blob/main/packages/styled-system/src/css.ts) from Chakra UI normalizes the shortcuts that [Chakra provides](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/features/style-props) like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`css` function](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/blob/main/packages/styled-system/src/css.ts) from Chakra UI normalizes the shortcuts that [Chakra provides](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/features/style-props) like:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

<Box w="full" h={9} bg="blue.300"/>
```

The `w`, `h` and `bg` are aliases for `width`, `height` and `background` style properties. The `props` for this `Box` component are passed to the `css` getting this output:

```javascript
{
  height: "var(--chakra-sizes-9)",
  background: "var(--chakra-colors-blue-300)",
​  width: "var(--chakra-sizes-full)"
}
```

> We can't use nice values like `9`, `full` or `blue.300` because Spreedly is inside an `iframe` and our CSS [custom properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) (a.k.a. CSS variables) are not in the scope of the `iframe`'s stylesheet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we can't use nice values like `9`, `full` or `blue.300` because Spreedly is inside an `iframe` and our CSS [custom properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) (a.k.a. CSS variables) are not in the scope of the `iframe`'s stylesheet.
```

> We can't use nice values like `9`, `full` or `blue.300` because Spreedly is inside an `iframe` and our CSS [custom properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) (a.k.a. CSS variables) are not in the scope of the `iframe`'s stylesheet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But we can't use these nice values like `9`, `full` or `blue.300` because Spreedly is inside an `iframe` and our CSS [custom properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/--*) (a.k.a. CSS variables) are not in the scope of the `iframe`'s stylesheet.
```

Reviewer 2: I know that you are my boss, but I prefer @Nacho-source 's suggestion 😆

### Building the inline styles from an object

> We are going to put all together to get final theme values, not the custom properties, and serialize the CSS object into a inline style string using `emotion`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to put them all together to get the final theme values (not the custom properties) and serialize the CSS object into a inline style string using `emotion`.
```

```javascript
import {css, useTheme} from "@chakra-ui/react"
import {serializeStyles} from '@emotion/serialize'

const buildStyles = theme => ({
  border: `2px solid ${theme.colors.gray[300]}`,
  color: theme.colors.black,
  lineHeight: theme.sizes[5]
});

const toCSSString = (styles, theme) => serializeStyles([css(styles)(theme)]).styles;

const MyComp = () => {
  const theme = useTheme();
  useEffect(() => {
    Spreedly.on("ready", () => {
      Spreedly.setStyle(
        "number",
        toCSSString(buildStyles(theme), theme)
      );
    });
  }, []);

  return <>...</>;
};
```

## Conclusion

> I hope these internals functions from Chakra UI and emotion help you using Spreedly, an iframe, or a UI component where we can't send the styles in the cool way that Chakra provides.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I hope these internals functions from Chakra UI and emotion help you when using Spreedly, an iframe, or a UI component where you can't send the styles in the cool way that Chakra provides.
```
